^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Changelog for package moveit_setup_assistant
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

0.5.9 (2014-03-22)
------------------
* Fixed bug 82 in a quick way by reducing min size.
* Fix for issue `#70 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/70>`_: support yaml-cpp 0.5+ (new api).
* Generate joint_limits.yaml using ordered joints
* Ensures that group name changes are reflected in the end effectors and robot poses screens as well
* Prevent dirty transforms warning
* Cleaned up stray cout's
* Contributors: Benjamin Chretien, Dave Coleman, Dave Hershberger, Sachin Chitta

0.5.8 (2014-02-06)
------------------
* Update move_group.launch
  Adding get planning scene service to template launch file.
* Fix `#42 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/42>` plus cosmetic param name change.
* Contributors: Acorn, Dave Hershberger, sachinchitta

0.5.7 (2014-01-03)
------------------
* Added back-link to tutorial and updated moveit website URL.
* Ported tutorial from wiki to sphinx in source repo.

0.5.6 (2013-12-31)
------------------
* Fix compilation on OS X 10.9 (clang)
* Contributors: Nikolaus Demmel, isucan

0.5.5 (2013-12-03)
------------------
* fix `#64 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/64>`_.
* Added Travis Continuous Integration

0.5.4 (2013-10-11)
------------------
* Added optional params so user knows they exist - values remain same

0.5.3 (2013-09-23)
------------------
* enable publishing more information for demo.launch
* Added 2 deps needed for some of the launch files generated by the setup assistant
* add source param for joint_state_publisher
* Added default octomap_resolution to prevent warning when move_group starts. Added comments.
* generate config files for fake controllers
* port to new robot state API

0.5.2 (2013-08-16)
------------------
* fix `#50 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/50>`_
* fix `#52 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/52>`_

0.5.1 (2013-08-13)
------------------
* make headers and author definitions aligned the same way; white space fixes
* add debug flag to demo.launch template
* default scene alpha is now 1.0
* add robot_state_publisher dependency for generated pkgs
* disable mongodb creation by default in demo.launch
* add dependency on joint_state_publisher for generated config pkgs

0.5.0 (2013-07-15)
------------------
* white space fixes (tabs are now spaces)
* fix `#49 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/49>`_

0.4.1 (2013-06-26)
------------------
* fix `#44 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/44>`_
* detect when xacro needs to be run and generate planning_context.launch accordingly
* fix `#46 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/46>`_
* refactor how planners are added to ompl_planning.yaml; include PRM & PRMstar, remove LazyRRT
* change defaults per `#47 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/47>`_
* SRDFWriter: add initModel() method for initializing from an existing urdf/srdf model in memory.
* SRDFWriter: add INCLUDE_DIRS to catkin_package command so srdf_writer.h can be used by other packages.
* git add option for minimum fraction of 'sometimes in collision'
* fix `#41 <https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_setup_assistant/issues/41>`_
